For nearly 70 years, the principal focus of Gildiard School has been to send missionaries
to foreign lands, particularly they were assigned to remote areas of the country.
Now, since 2011, the purpose and focus of Gildiard has changed.
First, all those that attend Gildiard now have already been in special full-time service.
Either as missionaries, traveling overseers, or maybe they've been serving at a Bethlehem.
Second, all those that are invited to attend Gildiard have been hand-picked by their branch
committee.
Then, they're invited to attend Gildiard.
They're not going to be assigned to some remote area.
They're going to be assigned to a densely populated area.
The idea is to bolster up the organization wherever they're assigned.
But when I got my Gildiard invitation, I was overwhelmed, really.
We had never thought about it, not because we didn't appreciate the missionary service,
but just because we were sure that we were already giving our best to Jehovah.
I was really struggling in my mind with that idea that we are now invited to Gildiard.
Jehovah is teaching us that adjusting your goals is possible with his early spirit.
We thought about the example of Paul when he went to minor Asia.
He wanted to go to one direction, but then the Holy Spirit said, no, no, you need to
go to another direction.
Isaiah was able to offer himself to do the assignment without the knowledge of what he was going
to do.
For me, it was a good example to follow.
I learned Jehovah to choose our assignment, helps us to discover other areas which we
can save Jehovah, maybe even do better than we ever thought we could do.
Sometimes we can surprise ourselves.
I just love to be surprised by Jehovah.
Taste and see that Jehovah is good, but how can we do it if we don't give Jehovah opportunities
to show that for us?
So because we have, we have fears, we limit how Jehovah can use us, we do not avail ourselves
to Jehovah's blessings.
So again, it's just a case of trust in that Jehovah knows the best way for you and
follow it, and then you'll never be disappointed.
At the graduation of the 135th class of Gilead, on September 14, 2013, the chairman, Guy
Pierce of the governing body, epitomized the student's feelings.
Jehovah God is taking ordinary people like you and me, causing extraordinary things to
take place according to his will and direction.
Drawing on the example of the first century Macedonians, Thomas Chicky of the United
States Branch Committee explained,
They're giving had consequences, but they calculated the consequences and gave wholeheartedly
to a grand theocratic activity.
You have not shielded yourself from the consequences of giving fully.
Yes, it costs sometimes, but as it works out, there's great blessings.
Gilead instructors Sam Robertson and William Samuelson, along with the governing body's
Samuel Hurd, offered some parting admonition to the students.
Remember, whatever good you do in the days ahead, in whatever assignment you may find yourself
in, you did not accomplish it alone.
Jehovah was with you.
Our problems, difficulties, will be no match for Jehovah.
Now maybe Jehovah won't take away the problem, but he certainly empowers us that we can handle
that problem.
Man's extremities are Jehovah's opportunities.
Show respect for the dignity of others.
You add to your dignity when you glorify your ministry, not looking for self-lorification.
The students shared regularly in the ministry and the audience enjoyed reenactments
of their experiences under the guiding hand of Michael Burnett, one of their Gilead instructors.
Four of the students expressed how their hearts have been given firmness by their Gilead training.
Joshua didn't really replace Moses.
Moses had his role in Jehovah's organization as did Joshua who followed, and the same is true today.
Gilead school and other theocratic schools, they don't train replacements.
They simply train Jehovah's people to do what's needed by his organization right now.
The most valuable things in Jehovah's organization are the publishers, the people around us.
This whole world is in the state it's in because Satan refused to be humble.
So for me, I realized that to be useful to Jehovah and the organization, I have to be a lesser one.
That brings us to the third example we want to address.
Jackson of the governing body referenced Jesus' observation of a poor widow near the temple treasury.
Jesus said those two coins that were placed there, that really was her whole living.
It really didn't matter how the money was going to be used.
That was her gift to Jehovah, and she was going to be blessed because she gave it.
She sometimes our efforts may appear to be futile.
Whatever we do in Jehovah's service is proof of our faithfulness and it is our gift to Jehovah.
A combined total of 10,495 attendees saw the graduates receive their hard earned diplomas
with the words of Brother Hurd still ringing in their ears.
Well, the school has ended.
And when you and the school are gone, may the memory linger off.
Yes, the students of Gilead school are now trained to become a strengthening aid to the branches that they're assigned to.